\chapter{Conclusions}

\section{OSDI}

We presented the design and implementation of the Termite driver 
synthesis tool.  Termite is the first tool to marry automatic 
game-based synthesis with conventional manual development.  It is 
also the first practical synthesis tool based on abstraction 
refinement.  Finally, it is the first synthesis tool to support 
automated debugging of input specifications. 

Based on our experimental results, we consider Termite to 
be an important step towards truly practical device driver 
synthesis.  In particular, our synthesis algorithm is able to 
efficiently handle real-world device specifications, while the 
user-guided approach reliably leads to high-quality code.

%Device driver synthesis is a high-risk/high-gain research topic, 
%where the potential dramatic improvements in developers' 
%productivity and driver reliability can only be achieved by 
%solving a number of hard research challenges.  In this paper we 
%address two of these challenges, namely code quality and 
%synthesis scalability, leading to the first practical driver 
%synthesis tool.

Our ongoing research focuses on solving the key remaining problems 
described in Section~\ref{s:limitations}, primarily the DMA 
problem, which poses the main obstacle to synthesis of more 
complex drivers, and the grey-box synthesis problem, which limits 
the degree of automation achieved by Termite.  Next, we will 
explore ways to improve the quality of automatically generated 
code and thus further reduce the need for user involvement.  This 
includes performance- and power-aware synthesis.  Finally, we plan 
to investigate automatic synthesis of hardened device drivers, 
i.e., drivers that gracefully handle misbehaving 
devices~\cite{Kadav_RS_09}.

\section{FMCAD}

We presented and evaluated a practical predicate-based abstraction 
refinement algorithm for solving games.  To the best of our 
knowledge, this is the first such algorithm described in the 
literature.  We addressed key performance bottlenecks involved in 
applying predicate abstraction in game settings and demonstrated 
that our algorithm performs well on real-world reactive synthesis 
benchmarks. 
